content/blog/summit/2026-01-18-XMPP_FOSDEM_26_UPDATE.md, before:

---
title: XMPP at FOSDEM 2026 UPDATE!
date: 2026-01-18
categories: ['FOSDEM', 'Events']
---

The XMPP Community is very excited to announce its presence at the coming [FOSDEM 2026](https://fosdem.org)!

Once again, many members of the XMPP community will be attending, and will happily welcome you!

## Realtime Lounge: UPDATE!

The XMPP community invites you to the join the *Realtime Lounge*, where you can come and meet community members, project developers, see demos and ask all the questions.

**This year the XMPP & Realtime Lounge has been reallocated to the [AW building, Level 1](https://fosdem.org/2026/stands/).**

{{< figure src="/images/blog/xmpp-realtime-lounge-location.png" caption="Map of the **AW building, Level 1**" >}}

## Decentralized Communication Devroom

We would like to invite you to join the technical talks around decentralised communication.
There will also be talks on various messaging and Real-time communication (RTC) projects such as ActivityPub, ATProto, Automerge, DeltaChat, Matrix and of course XMPP in the [Decentralised Communication](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/track/decentralised-communication/) developer room.

## Talks

These are the XMPP related talks that will take place on the [Decentralised Communication](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/track/decentralised-communication/) track. This talks will take place in room [AW1.126](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/room/aw1126/) on Sunday, January 31st, 2026. You can also [join the conversation](https://chat.fosdem.org/#/room/#2026-decentralised-communication:fosdem.org) or watch the live videos at [aw1126](https://live.fosdem.org/watch/aw1126).

- [Engineering XMPP Federation: Building Messaging, Voice & Social Features Across Independent Projects](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/7XJL9E-engineering_xmpp_federation_building_messaging_voice_social_features_across_inde/): The [XSF](https://xmpp.org) is a standards body that sits at the core of a development ecosystem of independent implementations by different individuals and organizations that actually work together, all highly interoperable, shipping new features at a high pace. This talk, by [Jérôme Sautret](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/speaker/jerome_sautret/) will share how things work at this scale and will be co-presented by a server and client developer, showing how they work together to fine-tune their implementations. This talk starts at 13:15 and ends at 13:45 hs. (UTC+1:00)
- [Movim: Building a Decentralized Social Network on XMPP](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/EVSXLA-movim-building-decentralized-social-network-xmpp/): In this talk, [Timothée Jaussoin](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/speaker/timothee_jaussoin/) will present how [Movim](https://movim.eu/) leverages the XMPP standard and its extensions to deliver features users expect from modern social platforms (communities, IM, group chats, video calls, blogging and a complete publishing platform into a unified experience), without giving up your data to a centralized platform, while remaining fully federated, interoperable with other XMPP clients like [Conversations](https://conversations.im/) and [Dino](https://dino.im/), and capable of bridging to centralized platforms like Discord, Telegram, and WhatsApp!. This talk starts at 13:45 and ends at 14:15 hs. (UTC+1:00)
- [What are you listening to now?: Implementing "Now Playing" feature in modern XMPP](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/8EDWJT-now-playing-revisited/): In this talk, [Özcan Oğuz](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/speaker/ozcan_oguz/) will share the journey on his research on implementing this feature in modern XMPP clients, the protocols of certain operating systems to read the currently playing media, the current status of the support of [XEP-0118](/extensions/xep-0118.html) (User Tune) and the PoC of a modern "Now Playing" feature. This talk starts at 14:15 and ends at 14:45 hs. (UTC+1:00)

## What to expect

- The chance to meet and engange in face to face conversations with the developers of the XMPP client that you use, the server that you may be selfhosting, the libraries and/or tools that you may be using in your proyect.
- Promotional and informational material: XMPP 2025 highlight Flyers, DI.DAY for XMPP Flyer ...
- Free candy!
- And .. say what? Sticker? You are in for a treat! XMPP logo stickers, OMEMO, Movim, Dino, Monocles Chat, Conversations IM, Libervia, ... you name it! ( And who knows? Maybe somebody will even be there presenting the new mascot for their project!! ).

Don't forget to **come by our stand**, please believe us: **you really won't want to miss it!**

### Info & Dates

|                 |   |
|-----------------|---|
| When?           | 31st January + 1st February 2026 | 
| Where?          | [ULB, Campus du Solbosch, Av. F. D. Roosevelt 50, 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium](https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=50.81236&mlon=4.38073#map=15/50.81236/4.38073)  |
| Where exactly?  | [AW building, Level 1](https://fosdem.org/2026/stands/)  |
| Contact         | [XMPP Community chats](https://xmpp.org/community/chat/) & [XMPP Community mailing lists](https://xmpp.org/community/mailing-lists/)  |

## XMPP Summit 28 prior to FOSDEM 2026

Prior to FOSDEM, the XSF will also traditionally hold its [28th XMPP summit](https://xmpp.org/2025/11/xmpp-summit-28/).
This is where community members gather to discuss protocol changes and the XMPP roadmap.
Everyone is welcome to join, just kindly list yourself free of cost as there is only limited space.
Check the official online presence and communication, too (see the media links in the footer).

Looking forward to see you there!

Spread the word 📢

Commit message:

Added link to wiki page for Summit 28

content/blog/summit/2026-01-18-XMPP_FOSDEM_26_UPDATE.md, after:

---
title: XMPP at FOSDEM 2026 UPDATE!
date: 2026-01-18
categories: ['FOSDEM', 'Events']
---

The XMPP Community is very excited to announce its presence at the coming [FOSDEM 2026](https://fosdem.org)!

Once again, many members of the XMPP community will be attending, and will happily welcome you!

## Realtime Lounge: UPDATE!

The XMPP community invites you to the join the *Realtime Lounge*, where you can come and meet community members, project developers, see demos and ask all the questions.

**This year the XMPP & Realtime Lounge has been reallocated to the [AW building, Level 1](https://fosdem.org/2026/stands/).**

{{< figure src="/images/blog/xmpp-realtime-lounge-location.png" caption="Map of the **AW building, Level 1**" >}}

## Decentralized Communication Devroom

We would like to invite you to join the technical talks around decentralised communication.
There will also be talks on various messaging and Real-time communication (RTC) projects such as ActivityPub, ATProto, Automerge, DeltaChat, Matrix and of course XMPP in the [Decentralised Communication](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/track/decentralised-communication/) developer room.

## Talks

These are the XMPP related talks that will take place on the [Decentralised Communication](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/track/decentralised-communication/) track. This talks will take place in room [AW1.126](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/room/aw1126/) on Sunday, January 31st, 2026. You can also [join the conversation](https://chat.fosdem.org/#/room/#2026-decentralised-communication:fosdem.org) or watch the live videos at [aw1126](https://live.fosdem.org/watch/aw1126).

- [Engineering XMPP Federation: Building Messaging, Voice & Social Features Across Independent Projects](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/7XJL9E-engineering_xmpp_federation_building_messaging_voice_social_features_across_inde/): The [XSF](https://xmpp.org) is a standards body that sits at the core of a development ecosystem of independent implementations by different individuals and organizations that actually work together, all highly interoperable, shipping new features at a high pace. This talk, by [Jérôme Sautret](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/speaker/jerome_sautret/) will share how things work at this scale and will be co-presented by a server and client developer, showing how they work together to fine-tune their implementations. This talk starts at 13:15 and ends at 13:45 hs. (UTC+1:00)
- [Movim: Building a Decentralized Social Network on XMPP](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/EVSXLA-movim-building-decentralized-social-network-xmpp/): In this talk, [Timothée Jaussoin](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/speaker/timothee_jaussoin/) will present how [Movim](https://movim.eu/) leverages the XMPP standard and its extensions to deliver features users expect from modern social platforms (communities, IM, group chats, video calls, blogging and a complete publishing platform into a unified experience), without giving up your data to a centralized platform, while remaining fully federated, interoperable with other XMPP clients like [Conversations](https://conversations.im/) and [Dino](https://dino.im/), and capable of bridging to centralized platforms like Discord, Telegram, and WhatsApp!. This talk starts at 13:45 and ends at 14:15 hs. (UTC+1:00)
- [What are you listening to now?: Implementing "Now Playing" feature in modern XMPP](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/8EDWJT-now-playing-revisited/): In this talk, [Özcan Oğuz](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/speaker/ozcan_oguz/) will share the journey on his research on implementing this feature in modern XMPP clients, the protocols of certain operating systems to read the currently playing media, the current status of the support of [XEP-0118](/extensions/xep-0118.html) (User Tune) and the PoC of a modern "Now Playing" feature. This talk starts at 14:15 and ends at 14:45 hs. (UTC+1:00)

## What to expect

- The chance to meet and engange in face to face conversations with the developers of the XMPP client that you use, the server that you may be selfhosting, the libraries and/or tools that you may be using in your proyect.
- Promotional and informational material: XMPP 2025 highlight Flyers, DI.DAY for XMPP Flyer ...
- Free candy!
- And .. say what? Sticker? You are in for a treat! XMPP logo stickers, OMEMO, Movim, Dino, Monocles Chat, Conversations IM, Libervia, ... you name it! ( And who knows? Maybe somebody will even be there presenting the new mascot for their project!! ).

Don't forget to **come by our stand**, please believe us: **you really won't want to miss it!**

### Info & Dates

|                 |   |
|-----------------|---|
| When?           | 31st January + 1st February 2026 | 
| Where?          | [ULB, Campus du Solbosch, Av. F. D. Roosevelt 50, 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium](https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=50.81236&mlon=4.38073#map=15/50.81236/4.38073)  |
| Where exactly?  | [AW building, Level 1](https://fosdem.org/2026/stands/)  |
| Contact         | [XMPP Community chats](https://xmpp.org/community/chat/) & [XMPP Community mailing lists](https://xmpp.org/community/mailing-lists/)  |

## XMPP Summit 28 prior to FOSDEM 2026

Prior to FOSDEM, the XSF will also traditionally hold its [28th XMPP summit](https://xmpp.org/2025/11/xmpp-summit-28/).
This is where community members gather to discuss protocol changes and the XMPP roadmap.
Everyone is welcome to join, just kindly list yourself free of cost as there is only limited space.
Please make yourself known by filling out your details on the [wiki page for Summit 28]( https://wiki.xmpp.org/web/Conferences/Summit_28)
Check the official online presence and communication, too (see the media links in the footer).

Looking forward to see you there!

Spread the word 📢
