content/about/xmpp-standards-foundation.md, before:

---
Title: XMPP Standards Foundation (XSF)
Url: about/xmpp-standards-foundation
aliases:
    - "/about/xmpp-standards-foundation.html"
    - "/about/xsf/"
layout: single_xsf
---

The XMPP Standards Foundation (also known as the XSF and formerly the Jabber Software Foundation) is an independent, nonprofit standards development organisation whose [primary mission is to define open protocols](/about/xsf/mission) for presence, instant messaging, and real-time communication and collaboration on top of the IETF’s Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP).

The XSF also provides information and infrastructure to the worldwide community of Jabber/XMPP developers, service providers, and end users. In addition, the XSF administers the [Jabber Trademark Licensing Program](/about/xsf/jabber-trademark).

At the core of the XSF is its elected Membership who, in turn, elect a [Council](#council) (the technical leadership) and Board (the business leadership). The [Board](#board) also appoints various work teams and roles.

{{< xsf-diagram >}}

## The Board{#board}

The Board of Directors of the XMPP Standards Foundation oversees the business affairs of the organisation. As elected by the XSF membership, the Board of Directors consists of the following individuals:

- __Dave Cridland__ is an independent consultant for Extensible Messaging Ltd, working mostly on XMPP-based messaging things for a number of clients. This isn't his first time on the Board, and he has been on the XMPP Council for a number of years as well. Will nobody ever learn? He has worked extensively on multiple XMPP server projects, including Isode's M-Link, Ignite Realtime's Openfire, and his own Metre project. His hobbies include working on XMPP servers, which is just as well, and writing about himself in the third person, which is really coming into its own right now. Drop him a message via [XMPP](xmpp:dwd@dave.cridland.net).
- __Edward Maurer__ is working in engineering automation (energy sector, non-XMPP) and is volunteering in XMPP since more than five years already. Since 2020 he is thriving the [XSF Communication Team](https://xmpp.org/about/xsf/comm-team/). Besides successfully supporting the XMPP Community and its projects he is co-author of [XMPP Providers](https://providers.xmpp.net/). Find the contact and details in the [XMPP wiki profile](https://wiki.xmpp.org/web/User:Echolon).
- __Ralph Meijer__ is an independent consultant for Nuntians Services B.V., working on real-time communications systems, event-driven architectures, and observability. He is the lead developer of several XMPP related projects and services, including Wokkel and the XMPP support in Twisted, the Idavoll pubsub component, and Planet Jabber. Ralph has been member of the XMPP Council from 2004 to 2013 and Director since 2013. You can contact him via [email](mailto:ralphm@ik.nu) or [XMPP](xmpp:ralphm@ik.nu).
- __Florian Schmaus__ is a software developer and long-standing contributor to the XMPP community. He is leading the development of Smack, an XMPP client library targeting Android and Java. His interests include operating systems, parallel runtime systems, and systems software in general. Fittingly, Florian also conducts research in this area and helps students unravel the black box inside modern computing systems. Besides that, he enjoys spending time with his family.
- __Arne-Bruen Vogelsang__ is the founder and lead developer of [monocles](https://monocles.eu/more/). Whereas he is maintaining two public XMPP servers and [monocles chat]( https://f-droid.org/packages/de.monocles.chat/) is a known XMPP chat client for Android, he's also working on other non-XMPP related open source projects.
During his studies he learned a lot about the need for more ethical and fair digital and technological solutions. He also experienced the business side for founding a sustainable company providing open source solutions.
He advocates and supports XMPP and open source since many years and is an official XSF member since 2023.
You can contact him via [email](mailto:arne-bruen@monocles.de) or [XMPP](xmpp:arne-bruen@monocles.de).

## The Council{#council}

The XMPP Council is the technical steering group that approves XMPP Extension Protocols. The Council is governed by the [XSF Bylaws](/about/xsf/bylaws/) and [XEP-0001](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0001.html), as augmented by various [policies and procedures](/about/xsf/council-policies-and-procedures).

The Council is elected by the members of the XMPP Standards Foundation. In the interest of transparency, [chatroom logs](/community/chat/) and [mailing list archives](/community/mailing-lists/) are available (anyone can subscribe to the mailing list, but only Council members can post). The Council meets once a week in a [chatroom](/community/chat/#council-chatroom) - anyone can join in, comments from the floor are welcome.

The Council consists of the following individuals:

- __Dan Caseley__ is a regular contributor to the [Openfire](https://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/openfire/) project, and an author and contributor in Openfire's plugin ecosystem. Initially involved in XMPP implementations at work, Dan is now a contributor in both his professional and personal life as part of the OSS community.
- __Daniel Gultsch__ is the maintainer of the Android client [Conversations](https://conversations.im) and operates an [XMPP domain hosting service](https://account.conversations.im/domain). He has also (co-) created several XEPs. Contact information can be found on [his website](https://gultsch.de).
- __Marvin Wissfeld__  is one of the maintainers of the XMPP client [Dino](https://dino.im/). He has contributed to several XEPs and various free software projects related to XMPP.
- __Stephen Paul Weber__ is one of the maintainers at the [Sopranica Project](https://soprani.ca) which includes the [Cheogram Services and Client](https://cheogram.com) and also [JMP](https://jmp.chat). Feel free to contact him via [his Jabber ID](xmpp:singpolyma@singpolyma.net).
- __Jérôme Poisson__ is the maintainer of the [Libervia](https://libervia.org/) client, including several components and notably an ActivityPub ⟺ XMPP gateway, and the Libervia Pubsub component (an advanced PEP/Pubsub service). He is also the author of several XEPs and a strong advocate for non-IM use cases, particularly those based on pubsub.

Commit message:

Update XSF Board Member bios after 2025/2026 elections
Removes bios for Dave and Edward. Added one for Guus.

This still needs a bio for Michael.

Depending on how the tie-breaking process pans out, Arne-Bruen's bio might need to be replaced with one for Adrien.

The composition of Council has not changed after the elections (same candidates were voted in again).

content/about/xmpp-standards-foundation.md, after:

---
Title: XMPP Standards Foundation (XSF)
Url: about/xmpp-standards-foundation
aliases:
    - "/about/xmpp-standards-foundation.html"
    - "/about/xsf/"
layout: single_xsf
---

The XMPP Standards Foundation (also known as the XSF and formerly the Jabber Software Foundation) is an independent, nonprofit standards development organisation whose [primary mission is to define open protocols](/about/xsf/mission) for presence, instant messaging, and real-time communication and collaboration on top of the IETF’s Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP).

The XSF also provides information and infrastructure to the worldwide community of Jabber/XMPP developers, service providers, and end users. In addition, the XSF administers the [Jabber Trademark Licensing Program](/about/xsf/jabber-trademark).

At the core of the XSF is its elected Membership who, in turn, elect a [Council](#council) (the technical leadership) and Board (the business leadership). The [Board](#board) also appoints various work teams and roles.

{{< xsf-diagram >}}

## The Board{#board}

The Board of Directors of the XMPP Standards Foundation oversees the business affairs of the organisation. As elected by the XSF membership, the Board of Directors consists of the following individuals:

- __Guus der Kinderen__ is an independent consultant and founder of GoodBytes, specializing in XMPP-based messaging systems and real-time communication solutions. He has been active in the XMPP community since the early 2000s and contributes to multiple projects, including the [Openfire](https://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/openfire/) server and the [XMPP Interop Testing framework]**https://xmpp-interop-testing.github.io/). His interests include open standards, protocol development, and fostering a sustainable and thriving XMPP ecosystem. You can contact him via [email](mailto:guus@goodbytes.nl) or [XMPP](xmpp:guus.der.kinderen@igniterealtime.org).
- __Ralph Meijer__ is an independent consultant for Nuntians Services B.V., working on real-time communications systems, event-driven architectures, and observability. He is the lead developer of several XMPP related projects and services, including Wokkel and the XMPP support in Twisted, the Idavoll pubsub component, and Planet Jabber. Ralph has been member of the XMPP Council from 2004 to 2013 and Director since 2013. You can contact him via [email](mailto:ralphm@ik.nu) or [XMPP](xmpp:ralphm@ik.nu).
- __Florian Schmaus__ is a software developer and long-standing contributor to the XMPP community. He is leading the development of Smack, an XMPP client library targeting Android and Java. His interests include operating systems, parallel runtime systems, and systems software in general. Fittingly, Florian also conducts research in this area and helps students unravel the black box inside modern computing systems. Besides that, he enjoys spending time with his family.
- __Arne-Bruen Vogelsang__ is the founder and lead developer of [monocles](https://monocles.eu/more/). Whereas he is maintaining two public XMPP servers and [monocles chat]( https://f-droid.org/packages/de.monocles.chat/) is a known XMPP chat client for Android, he's also working on other non-XMPP related open source projects.
During his studies he learned a lot about the need for more ethical and fair digital and technological solutions. He also experienced the business side for founding a sustainable company providing open source solutions.
He advocates and supports XMPP and open source since many years and is an official XSF member since 2023.
You can contact him via [email](mailto:arne-bruen@monocles.de) or [XMPP](xmpp:arne-bruen@monocles.de).

## The Council{#council}

The XMPP Council is the technical steering group that approves XMPP Extension Protocols. The Council is governed by the [XSF Bylaws](/about/xsf/bylaws/) and [XEP-0001](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0001.html), as augmented by various [policies and procedures](/about/xsf/council-policies-and-procedures).

The Council is elected by the members of the XMPP Standards Foundation. In the interest of transparency, [chatroom logs](/community/chat/) and [mailing list archives](/community/mailing-lists/) are available (anyone can subscribe to the mailing list, but only Council members can post). The Council meets once a week in a [chatroom](/community/chat/#council-chatroom) - anyone can join in, comments from the floor are welcome.

The Council consists of the following individuals:

- __Dan Caseley__ is a regular contributor to the [Openfire](https://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/openfire/) project, and an author and contributor in Openfire's plugin ecosystem. Initially involved in XMPP implementations at work, Dan is now a contributor in both his professional and personal life as part of the OSS community.
- __Daniel Gultsch__ is the maintainer of the Android client [Conversations](https://conversations.im) and operates an [XMPP domain hosting service](https://account.conversations.im/domain). He has also (co-) created several XEPs. Contact information can be found on [his website](https://gultsch.de).
- __Marvin Wissfeld__  is one of the maintainers of the XMPP client [Dino](https://dino.im/). He has contributed to several XEPs and various free software projects related to XMPP.
- __Stephen Paul Weber__ is one of the maintainers at the [Sopranica Project](https://soprani.ca) which includes the [Cheogram Services and Client](https://cheogram.com) and also [JMP](https://jmp.chat). Feel free to contact him via [his Jabber ID](xmpp:singpolyma@singpolyma.net).
- __Jérôme Poisson__ is the maintainer of the [Libervia](https://libervia.org/) client, including several components and notably an ActivityPub ⟺ XMPP gateway, and the Libervia Pubsub component (an advanced PEP/Pubsub service). He is also the author of several XEPs and a strong advocate for non-IM use cases, particularly those based on pubsub.
