---
title: It is not a choice of the instant messaging app
date: 2021-01-20 06:30
author: Edward Maurer
blog_id: blog
category: misc
---

## It is not a choice of the instant messaging app

Recently, several people reached out to me asking what kind of messenger they should be using now. Furthermore, they said that they actually do not understand what they should be concerned about and whether they should switch from one of the commonly known messengers to another. 
I was wondering how to answer this. Obviously, I could have stood-up and advocated for XMPP (Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol), but then I thought this alone is not a helpful answer. On the one hand, I see that many people just make a short-term decision about their communication software. On the other hand, I also see they usually do not switch the platform because they made a very evaluated choice for one specific messenger. Many people just switch again and again.

Actually, most will just add yet another messenger to their list of messengers. Likely, that is more frustrating than helping, which brings me back to the beginning and the actual question: What issue or what problem does one want to solve here? What are the incentives? Can one find a solution that avoids hype and does not involve installing more than one messenger app that will have a better technological basis?

A possible intention of that question may be different expectations of some functionality, the basic requirement of effective data privacy and sovereignty or simply the possibility to reach all my contacts. However, that change will still require leaving behind the previous messaging system and switching to a new one, which almost always results in the loss of the existing contacts. Furthermore, in terms of privacy, one is almost always required to provide a phone number.

### Sovereignty of Communication

So, as you might have suspected, now I am going to advocate for XMPP. I think the choice one should do firsthand, is not a choice of the messenger you use, but of the underlying software technology. One should actually always do that. So, here we are: Consider the choice of technology first before you jump from one recommendation to the next one.

> XMPP is an open protocol, like HTTP is for the web. It does not matter what your website looks like, everyone can interact with it. This principle is the idea behind XMPP, but for instant messaging.

We at the XMPP Standards Foundation, but also many others involved in this open technology, think that XMPP is a good choice as a communication technology, not just with respect to data privacy. XMPP as a protocol has been around for about two decades since its creation in 1999 and a lot of experience has been gathered during that period. Mainly, this includes several important key indicators for the choice of technology and enabling of sovereignty of communication as it supports:

- Decentralization (federation) of communication services
- Standardization and extensibility of technology
- Innovation and the use of open development
- Privacy and control, also by using encryption

> XMPP provides defined information how to handle the communication in a network. The user decides which messaging software suits or where the data should be stored.

In contrast to the current situation of many people suggesting one specific messenger, in the XMPP universe you have a choice between many messengers – pick the one you like and not what others like (and maybe think that you might like as well) until the next internet trend starts. The difference is that you still have the comfort to be in the same network, independent of your choice today. I think this is a real solution.

### It is not a choice of the instant messaging app, but of the technology

Consider a decision on the technology you intend to use, then decide which messenger suits you or your environment. XMPP and its community have a long-lasting experience, which has been successfully utilized in a lot of software. We think this was and still is a good solution for the entire internet and most people and organizations out there – and it is open for you to make innovations for the future.

> XMPP has not just a wide range of messaging software; there is also various server software and the tools (libraries) to build infrastructure yourself.

There is not a single way in which communication apps are designed. Make a choice of standardized technology which is a sustainable decision. For that purpose and many more we recommend the use of XMPP – the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol.

If you are interested in making a choice for the next decade, let me point you to these further readings:

- [Getting started](https://xmpp.org/getting-started/), XMPP Standards Foundation
- XSF Blog article: [It’s all about choices and control](https://xmpp.org/2015/01/its-all-about-choices-and-control/) from Laura, written in 2015
- [Modern XMPP](https://docs.modernxmpp.org/), website supporting developers & newcomers to get started with XMPP
- Commentary in the XMPP Community (not all in English):
    - [Eine Chance für XMPP?](https://www.jabber.de/eine-chance-fuer-xmpp/), jabber.de
    - [How to ensure your Instant Messaging solution offers users privacy and security](https://www.erlang-solutions.com/blog/how-to-ensure-your-instant-messaging-solution-offers-users-privacy-and-security.html), Erlang Solutions
    - [Mastodon post](https://pouet.april.org/@aprilorg/105520799332659637), Association April
    - [Twitter post](https://twitter.com/MovimNetwork/status/1351138046029279239), Movim Network
   
